[#17061] Docs for MyBatis integration with YugabyteDB (#17062)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/drivers-orms/java/mybatis.md

<!DOCTYPE mapper PUBLIC "-//mybatis.org//DTD Mapper 3.0//EN" "http://mybatis.org/dtd/mybatis-3-mapper.dtd" >

<mapper namespace="mybatis.mapper.UserMapper">

	<insert id="save" useGeneratedKeys = "true" parameterType = "User">
        insert into users (email, first_name, last_name) values (#{email}, #{firstName}, #{lastName})
    </insert>
    
    <resultMap id="userResultMap" type="User">
        <id property="userId" column="user_id"/>
        <result property="email" column="email"/>
        <result property="firstName" column="first_name"/>
        <result property="lastName" column="last_ame"/>
    </resultMap>
    
    <select id="findById" resultMap="userResultMap">
        select * from users where user_id = #{userId}
    </select>
    
    <select id="findAll" resultMap="userResultMap" fetchSize="10" flushCache="false" useCache="false" timeout="60000" statementType="PREPARED" resultSetType="FORWARD_ONLY">
        select * from users
    </select>
    
    <delete id = "delete" parameterType = "User">
      delete from users where user_id = #{userId};
    </delete>
    
</mapper>
```

### Step 4: Configure the data mappers and datasource in MyBatis configuration file

> All the data mappers are required to be defined in the mybatis configuration file. Create `mybatis-config.xml` in the resources folder to configure the mybatis framework. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the data mappers must be defined in the MyBatis configuration file. Create `mybatis-config.xml` in the resources folder to configure the MyBatis framework. 
```

> In the `mybatis-config.xml`, Define the User data mapper and the datasource for connecting to the YugabyteDB database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `mybatis-config.xml`, define the User data mapper and the datasource for connecting to the YugabyteDB database.
```

<configuration>
    <properties>
        <!-- enabling default property values -->
        <property name="org.apache.ibatis.parsing.PropertyParser.enable-default-value" value="true"/>
    </properties>
    <settings>
        <setting name="defaultFetchSize" value="100"/>
    </settings>
    <typeAliases>
        <typeAlias type="User" alias="User"/>
    </typeAliases>
    <environments default="development">
        <environment id="development">
            <transactionManager type="JDBC" />
            <dataSource type="POOLED">
                <property name="driver" value="com.yugabyte.Driver" />
                <property name="url" value="jdbc:yugabytedb://127.0.0.1:5433/yugabyte" />
                <!-- default property values support -->
                <property name="username" value="${db.username:yugabyte}" />
                <property name="password" value="${db.password:}" />
            </dataSource>
        </environment>
    </environments>
    <mappers>
        <mapper resource="UserMapper.xml" />
    </mappers>
</configuration>
```

### Step 5: Create MyBatis SQLSessionFactory object

> [SQLSession](https://mybatis.org/mybatis-3/configuration.html#properties) provides methods for performing DB operations, retrieving mappers and result set mapping etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[SQLSession](https://mybatis.org/mybatis-3/configuration.html#properties) provides methods for performing database operations, retrieving mappers and result set mapping, and so forth.
```

> SQLSessionFactory is not thread safe, hence we will need thread safe way of instantiating SQLSession. Lets create `MyBatisUtil.java` class in base package for creating thread-safe way of creating the SQLSessionFactory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SQLSessionFactory is not thread safe, so you need a thread safe way of instantiating SQLSession. Create the `MyBatisUtil.java` class in the base package to implement a thread-safe way of creating the SQLSessionFactory.
```

```java

import java.io.IOException;
import java.io.InputStream;

import org.apache.ibatis.io.Resources;
import org.apache.ibatis.session.SqlSessionFactory;
import org.apache.ibatis.session.SqlSessionFactoryBuilder;

public class MybatisUtil {
	
	private static SqlSessionFactory sqlSessionFactory;
	
	public static SqlSessionFactory getSessionFactory() {
        String resource = "mybatis-config.xml";
        InputStream inputStream;
		try {
			inputStream = Resources.getResourceAsStream(resource);
			sqlSessionFactory =
			          new SqlSessionFactoryBuilder().build(inputStream);
		} catch (IOException e) {
			e.printStackTrace();
		}
		return sqlSessionFactory;
    }
}
```

### Step 5: Create a DAO object for User object

Create a Data Access Object (DAO) `UserDAO.java` in the base package. The DAO is used for implementing the basic CRUD operations for the domain object `User.java`.

> Copy the below code into your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the following code into your project:
```

    }

    public void save(final User entity) {
    	
        try (SqlSession session = sqlSessionFactory.openSession()) {
        	session.insert("mybatis.mapper.UserMapper.save", entity);
        	session.commit();
         } catch (RuntimeException rte) {} 
    }

    public User findById(final Long id) {
    	
    	User user = null;

        try (SqlSession session = sqlSessionFactory.openSession()) {
        	user =  session.selectOne("mybatis.mapper.UserMapper.findById", id);
        	
        } catch (RuntimeException rte) {} 
        
        return user;
    }

    public List<User> findAll() {
    	
    	List<User> users = null;
        try (SqlSession session = sqlSessionFactory.openSession()) {
            users = session.selectList("mybatis.mapper.UserMapper.findAll");
        } catch (RuntimeException rte) {}
    	
    	return users;
    }

    public void delete(final User user) {

        try (SqlSession session = sqlSessionFactory.openSession()) {
            session.delete("mybatis.mapper.UserMapper.delete", user.getUserId());
        } catch (RuntimeException rte) {}
    }

}
```

### Step 6: Query the YugabyteDB cluster using MyBatis Framework

> Create a java class `MyBatisExample.java` in the base package of your project. Below sample code inserts a user record and queries the table content using MyBatis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a java class `MyBatisExample.java` in the base package of your project. The following sample code inserts a user record and queries the table content using MyBatis.
```

```java
import java.sql.SQLException;

import org.apache.ibatis.session.SqlSessionFactory;

public class MyBatisExample {
	
	  public static void main(String[] args) throws ClassNotFoundException, SQLException {

		  SqlSessionFactory sessionFactory = MybatisUtil.getSessionFactory();

		    System.out.println("Connected to the YugabyteDB Cluster successfully.");
			  UserDAO userDAO = new UserDAO(sessionFactory);
			  User user = new User();
			  user.setEmail("demo@yugabyte.com");
			  user.setFirstName("Alice");
			  user.setLastName("yugabeing");
			  
			  // Save an user
			  userDAO.save(user);
			  System.out.println("Inserted user record: " + user.getFirstName());

			  // Find the user
			  User userFromDB = userDAO.findById(new Long(201));
			  System.out.println("Query returned:" + userFromDB.toString());
		  }

}
```

> when you run the java project, `MyBatisExample.java` should output the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run the Java project, `MyBatisExample.java` should output the following:
```
